PAGE 1
D E T A I L E D  E N G I N E E R I N G  B L U E P R I N T  ·  P R O D U C T I O N - G R A D E  M V P
Vision Estates
AI-Powered Seller Acquisition Platform
A system-design, API, AI-architecture and DevOps deep dive on top of
the approved v1.0 Technical & Architecture Proposal — incorporating the
client's final reviewed and approved changes: newsletter double opt-in
consent, the two-tier Value Signal / Full Report model, and the Germany-
first market and problem-statement brief. 
PREPARED BY WOOKhoop, AI-Native Digital Agency
ENGAGEMENT LEAD Ashutosh — Principal Architect & AI Systems Engineer
CONTRIBUTING ROLES Software Engineering · AI Engineering · System Design · API Design · DevOps
CLIENT Vision Estates — Mario & Viktoria
DATE 27 August 2026
VERSION 3.0 — Client-Approved Revision, Detailed Engineering Edition
SUPERSEDES v1.0 (20 July 2026) and v2.0 Phase-Based Edition
CLASSIFICATION Confidential — Not for distribution
WOOKHOOP — AI-NATIVE DIGITAL AGENCY
Vision Estates × WOOKhoop — Confidential Engineering Document — Draft for Review

PAGE 2
Contents
This edition extends the approved v1.0 proposal with implementation-level detail across five engineering disciplines, and formally
incorporates the client's 27 August 2026 review approval.
PART 0 — CHANGE CONTROL & APPROVAL
0.1  Purpose of This Revision
0.2  Client Approval Record
0.3  Change Log — v1.0 → v2.0 → v3.0
PART I — BUSINESS CONTEXT (UPDATED)
1.1  Executive Summary
1.2  Market Problem Analysis — Eight Structural Problems
1.3  Go-to-Market Sequencing — Germany First
1.4  MVP Scope — Updated Boundaries
1.5  Deferred — Portfolio Intelligence Module (Phase 2+)
PART II — SYSTEM DESIGN
2.1  Domain Model — Entities & Relationships
2.2  State Machines
2.3  Domain Event Catalog
2.4  Core Sequence Flows
2.5  Module & Bounded-Context Map
PART III — API DESIGN
3.1  API Design Principles
3.2  Endpoint Catalog
3.3  Representative Payloads
3.4  Error Model & Status Codes
3.5  Async Notifications & Webhooks
PART IV — AI ARCHITECTURE (DEEP DIVE)
4.1  The Two-Tier Report Model — Value Signal & Full Report
4.2  Prompt Architecture & Template Governance
4.3  Context Assembly Pipeline
4.4  Guardrails & Output Validation
4.5  Model/Provider Strategy, Failover & Cost Governance
4.6  Human-in-the-Loop Release Gate
Confidential

PAGE 3
4.7  Localization of AI Output
PART V — DATA ARCHITECTURE (UPDATED)
5.1  Updated Entity Set
5.2  Consent & Newsletter Data Model
5.3  GDPR Mapping for Consent
5.4  Report Tiering & Release State
5.5  Indexing & Retention Updates
PART VI — BACKEND & FRONTEND DETAIL
6.1  Backend Module Layout (NestJS)
6.2  Frontend Route & Component Map
6.3  Background Jobs & Queues
6.4  Testing Strategy — Detailed
PART VII — DEVOPS BLUEPRINT
7.1  Environments & Branching Strategy
7.2  CI/CD Pipeline — Stage by Stage
7.3  Infrastructure as Code & AWS Resource Map
7.4  Observability Stack
7.5  Secrets & Configuration Management
7.6  Release Process, Migrations & Rollback
7.7  Disaster Recovery & Backups
PART VIII — DOCUMENTATION SET
8.1  Documentation Philosophy
8.2  Repository Documentation Index (.md files)
APPENDICES
A  Updated Risk Register
B  New & Updated Architecture Decision Records (ADR-007 – ADR-013)
C  Updated Non-Functional Requirements
D  Updated Assumptions & Dependencies
E  Updated Acceptance Criteria
Confidential

PAGE 4
PART 0 — CHANGE CONTROL & APPROVAL
0.1  Purpose of This Revision
Written from an implementation lens — Software Engineering, AI Engineering, System Design, API Design, and DevOps — on
top of the business-level v1.0 proposal.
The original Technical & Architecture Proposal (v1.0, 20 July 2026) established the business case, the layered
architecture, and the MVP boundary for Vision Estates' seller-acquisition platform. It answered what is being built and 
why. This revision answers how — at the level of detail a build team actually works from: concrete API contracts, state
machines, event flows, prompt governance, database migrations, and a CI/CD pipeline.
Two things triggered this revision. First, the client (Mario and Viktoria) completed a final review of the MVP and returned
formal approval together with three specific, binding refinements — newsletter consent handling, the two-tier valuation
report model, and the confirmed Germany-first market strategy with a detailed problem statement. Second, the
engineering team used the review cycle to expand every architectural layer to production-build depth, so that
development can start directly from this document without a further design pass.
CLIENT SIGN-OFF RECEIVED
This document formally incorporates client approval of the MVP as scoped, together with three final additions requested in
the same review. Nothing in Parts I–VIII contradicts the approved v1.0 scope; every addition here is either a clarification of
intent, a level-of-detail increase, or one of the three explicitly approved changes below. 
0.2  Client Approval Record
ITEM CLIENT INSTRUCTION
(SUMMARIZED) HOW IT IS REFLECTED IN THIS DOCUMENT
1.
Newsletter
Consent
Add a separate,
voluntary, unticked
checkbox for newsletter
consent at lead intake,
with double opt-in
confirmation, so leads
can later receive
automated newsletters.
New Consents and NewsletterSubscriptions entities (§5.2), a double opt-
in sequence flow (§2.4), dedicated API endpoints (§3.2), a GDPR lawful-basis
mapping (§5.3), and ADR-012 (Appendix B).
2. Value
Signal
Tiering
The first-shown report
("Value Signal") stays
compact — range,
confidence, drivers, open
points, market context,
CTA. The full report
(positioning, sales route,
strategy) is generated
immediately but held back
and only released to the
seller after the broker has
called and reviewed the
case.
New two-tier report model (§4.1), Report release state machine (§5.4), broker
"Release Report" action in the dashboard (§6.2), release-gated API endpoint (§3.2),
and ADR-011 (Appendix B).
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 4 of 32

PAGE 5
3.
Language
& Market
MVP ships in German
and English; Germany is
the first market before
any expansion. Eight
structural market
problems are provided as
the product-fit brief.
Portfolio management
(hold/improve/buy/sell
guidance) is confirmed as
a later, larger-platform
feature — not part of the
current MVP.
Market Problem Analysis (§1.2) mapping each of the eight problems to a platform
capability, Germany-first go-to-market sequencing (§1.3), localization architecture
(§4.7), and the Portfolio Intelligence Module formally logged as deferred (§1.5).
0.3  Change Log — v1.0 → v2.0 → v3.0
VERSION DATE SUMMARY
v1.0 20 Jul 2026 Original Technical & Architecture Proposal — business context, layered architecture,
technology stack, MVP scope, ADR-001–006.
v2.0 ~Aug 2026 Phase-Based Edition — 12 build phases, ten engineering-hardening improvements
(idempotency keys, booking state machine, AI cost governance/failover, GDPR-erasure/
audit-log pseudonymization, token revocation, CORS policy, secrets rotation, cost
monitoring, push-based report-ready notification, in-process domain-event bus) documented
as ADR-007–010. Reviewed by the client against 20 enterprise-architecture criteria;
response validated genuine Tier-1 gaps (DB DDL, real API contract, state machines, event
catalog, sequence diagrams) while declining premature enterprise-scale scope not required
for an MVP. Production DDL delivered and validated separately.
v3.0 27 Aug 2026 This document. Closes the remaining Tier-1 gaps (full endpoint catalog, sequence flows,
event catalog) in detailed form; adds the three client-approved changes above; adds the full
production documentation set (§8) as delivered .md files.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 5 of 32

PAGE 6
PART I — BUSINESS CONTEXT (UPDATED)
1.1  Executive Summary
Vision Estates is replacing a manual, broker-dependent seller-acquisition process with a self-service, AI-explained
valuation flow that prequalifies sellers before a broker makes first contact. The MVP validates a single hypothesis: will
property owners complete a self-service valuation flow, and does the resulting lead quality justify broker
follow-up? Following client review, the MVP is now precisely scoped to answer that question while laying a foundation
— data model, AI abstraction, integration layer — that the Phase 2+ platform (buyer matching, document intelligence,
CRM/marketing automation, portfolio intelligence) attaches to without a rebuild.
Three refinements from the client's final review sharpen this scope rather than expand it: sellers can now opt in to future
contact on their own terms (newsletter consent), the platform protects broker judgement in the sales process by holding
back strategic content until a human has reviewed the case (Value Signal / Full Report tiering), and the go-to-market
sequencing is explicitly Germany-first, tied to eight named structural problems in the German brokerage market that the
platform is designed against.
1.2  Market Problem Analysis — Eight Structural Problems
The client's review supplied a detailed, first-hand problem statement. Each problem is mapped below to the platform
capability that addresses it in the MVP, in a later phase, or — in one case — deliberately not at all inside this platform.
PROBLEM (CLIENT'S
WORDS, CONDENSED)
ADDRESSED
IN PLATFORM RESPONSE
Incomplete, poorly structured
or poorly presented property
and marketing data reduces
buyer interest and can cause a
property to fail to sell.
MVP The structured Property Details intake form (§2.1) enforces completeness
before a valuation is requested; the AI-generated report (§4.1) presents the
data consistently rather than relying on ad-hoc broker write-ups.
Unrealistic price expectations
leave a property on the market
far too long because it was
mispriced from the start.
MVP The valuation number always comes from a licensed provider (ADR-001,
unchanged from v1.0), and the Value Signal report (§4.1) surfaces confidence
and drivers directly to the seller before any listing decision.
Legal, energy-related and
renovation risks are identified
too late, or not understood by
the broker at all, so the wrong
sales strategy is chosen.
PARTIAL
MVP
Property intake captures condition and energy-relevant fields for the AI layer to
flag as opportunities/ risks in the Value Signal (§4.1); a dedicated risk-scoring
module is a Full Report / Phase 2 depth increase, not an MVP deliverable.
Weak buyer qualification —
financing is not properly
checked, proof of funds is
missing, deals fail late because
buyers lack sufficient equity.
OUT OF
MVP
Buyer-side qualification is explicitly out of scope (v1.0 §4, unchanged) — this is
a seller-acquisition MVP. Buyer verification is part of the Phase 2+ Buyer AI /
Matching module (§1.5, v1.0 §21).
Ghosting, slow decisions and
low commitment from buyers
who verbally agree and later
withdraw.
OUT OF
MVP
Same as above — a buyer-side behavioral problem, addressed by future
Buyer AI, not the seller-acquisition MVP.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 6 of 32

PAGE 7
Lack of transparency about
process, responsibilities and
next steps — few brokers offer
a clear milestone plan.
MVP The Report → Consultation Booking → (post-review) Full Report release flow
(§4.6, §5.4) is itself a visible milestone sequence for the seller: submit →
receive Value Signal → speak to a broker → receive full strategy. The Broker
Dashboard's pipeline stages (v1.0 §9) give brokers the same visibility
internally.
Lack of clarity on whether to
hold, improve, buy or sell —
worsened by high interest/
financing costs and rising
construction and energy-
compliance costs (CO₂ policy
driven).
PHASE 2+ Confirmed by the client as a Portfolio Intelligence Module for the larger
platform, not the current MVP (§1.5). The MVP's schema already isolates
Property and Valuation as first-class entities so this module can be added
additively later, matching the "no rebuild" principle in v1.0 §21.
Finding property sellers —
many brokers still rely on word-
of-mouth rather than structured
digital acquisition (social,
LinkedIn, etc.).
PRODUCT
THESIS
This is the core reason the platform exists: the public, mobile-responsive Seller
Portal (v1.0 §3) is the structured digital acquisition channel replacing word-of-
mouth sourcing. Newsletter consent (§5.2) extends this channel from a one-
time visit into an ongoing, compliant relationship.
SCOPE DISCIPLINE, REAFFIRMED
Five of the eight problems are already addressed by the approved MVP scope. Two (buyer qualification, ghosting) belong
structurally to the buyer side of the platform and remain out of scope by design (v1.0 §4). One (portfolio guidance) is
explicitly deferred at the client's own instruction (§1.5). No scope creep is introduced by this analysis — it is used to
confirm that the MVP is aimed at the right problems, not to expand it. 
1.3  Go-to-Market Sequencing — Germany First
Germany is confirmed as the sole launch market. The platform is not being built as a generic, multi-market product
prematurely localized everywhere at once — it is being built to win one market convincingly before any expansion
decision is made.
DIMENSION MVP COMMITMENT
Primary language German (de-DE) — default locale for the public Seller Portal, AI-generated report copy, email notifications, and
consent language.
Secondary language English (en) — available as a toggle for international owners of German property; not a separate market
strategy.
Regulatory frame German GDPR interpretation (BDSG) and German consent case law expectations (double opt-in) — see §5.3.
Data residency EU (Frankfurt) AWS region, as already specified in v1.0 Appendix C.
Expansion trigger Not scheduled in this document. Per the client's instruction, further markets are a post-validation decision,
made after the seller-acquisition hypothesis is confirmed in Germany.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 7 of 32

PAGE 8
1.4  MVP Scope — Updated Boundaries
The v1.0 Included/Not Included boundary (v1.0 §4) is unchanged in substance. Two additions bring it in line with the
client's approval:
Added to Included: a standalone, unticked newsletter-consent checkbox at intake with double opt-in confirmation
and consent storage (§5.2); a two-tier report generation and release model, where the Full Report is generated
automatically but held in a broker-gated release state (§4.1, §5.4).
Confirmed as Not Included: buyer-side matching/search, Document AI, marketing/CRM automation, native mobile
apps, localization beyond German/English — all unchanged from v1.0 — plus, newly and explicitly, portfolio
management / hold-improve-buy-sell guidance, confirmed by the client as a Phase 2+ capability of the larger
platform (§1.5).
1.5  Deferred — Portfolio Intelligence Module (Phase 2+)
The client confirmed that portfolio-level guidance — helping owners decide whether to hold, improve, purchase, or sell
across a set of properties, in the context of high financing costs and rising, CO₂-policy-linked construction and energy-
compliance costs — is real, validated demand, but belongs to the larger software platform rather than the current MVP.
No MVP work is scheduled against this module. It is recorded here, and in Appendix B (ADR reference) and §21 of the
underlying v1.0 proposal, purely so the schema and integration layer choices made now do not have to be revisited
when this module is eventually scoped: the Property and Valuation entities (§5.1) are already independent,
versioned, and owner-linked, which is the minimum precondition for a future portfolio-level rollup.
• 
• 
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 8 of 32

PAGE 9
PART II — SYSTEM DESIGN
2.1  Domain Model — Entities & Relationships
System Designer lens. Extends the v1.0 §7 entity list with the entities required by the client's approved changes.
The v1.0 entity set (Users, Roles, Properties, Valuations, Lead Scores, Reports, Bookings, Notifications, Audit Logs,
Documents) is retained without modification. Three entities are added or extended:
ENTITY STATUS PURPOSE & KEY RELATIONSHIPS
Consents NEW Generic, append-only record of any consent a user grants or withdraws (newsletter,
terms, data processing). One row per consent event — never overwritten — so the
full consent history is reconstructable for audit. Belongs to User.
NewsletterSubscriptionsNEW Current subscription state per email address: PENDING → CONFIRMED → 
WITHDRAWN. Holds the double opt-in token, its expiry, and confirmation
timestamp. 1—many Consents (each state transition also writes a Consent row
for audit).
Reports EXTENDED Existing entity from v1.0 §7 now carries a tier (VALUE_SIGNAL / FULL) and
a release_state (DRAFT_INTERNAL, RELEASED) — see §5.4. A Full
Report row is always created alongside the Value Signal, never generated later on
demand, per the client's instruction that the full report already exists internally and
is only gated for release.
2.2  State Machines
Property
Lead (Score)
DRAFT — seller has started but not submitted the intake form.1
SUBMITTED — form validated client- and server-side; ready for valuation request.2
VALUATION_PENDING — awaiting provider response.3
VALUATION_RECEIVED — provider payload stored verbatim (v1.0 §7 auditability requirement).4
REPORT_READY — Value Signal and Full Report both generated; only the Value Signal is visible to the seller.5
ARCHIVED — retention window elapsed with no broker engagement; see §5.5.6
UNSCORED → SCORED (deterministic rule engine, v1.0 §3) → HOT / WARM / COLD band assigned → ASSIGNED to a
broker → CONTACTED → CONVERTED or CLOSED_LOST.
123456
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 9 of 32

PAGE 10
Report — Release State (New Detail Required by Client Point 2)
DIRECTLY IMPLEMENTS CLIENT APPROVAL POINT 2
The Report entity cannot reach RELEASED automatically. It requires an explicit, individually attributable broker action. This
is the mechanism, not just a policy statement — the release-gate is enforced in the Business Logic layer (v1.0 §5, §8) and
re-checked server-side on every read of the Full Report, not only at the UI layer. 
Newsletter Subscription — Double Opt-In (New, Required by Client Point 1)
2.3  Domain Event Catalog
Events are published on the in-process domain-event bus introduced in v2.0 (ADR-010). The table below is the
authoritative event list for v3.0, including the events required by the two client-approved workflows.
EVENT EMITTED BY CONSUMED BY
property.submitted Property Service Valuation Service (triggers provider call)
valuation.received Valuation ServiceLead Scoring Service; AI Report Service
report.generated AI Report ServiceNotification Service (seller: Value Signal ready); Broker Dashboard read
model
lead.scored Lead Scoring
Service
Broker Assignment Service
broker.review_logged Broker DashboardReport Service (unlocks the Release action)
report.released Report Service Notification Service (seller: full report ready); Audit Log Service
DRAFT_INTERNAL — both Value Signal and Full Report exist in the database as soon as AI generation completes. The
Full Report is never visible to the seller in this state.
1
SELLER_VISIBLE (Value Signal only) — the seller-facing report page shows only the Value Signal tier; the Full Report
stays DRAFT_INTERNAL.
2
UNDER_BROKER_REVIEW — a broker has called and reviewed the case (a manual action logged against the Lead,
§2.3).
3
RELEASED — the broker explicitly releases the Full Report (§6.2 dashboard action, §3.2 API); only this transition makes
the Full Report visible to the seller and triggers a notification. This transition is irreversible by design and is written to the
Audit Logs entity.
4
NONE — checkbox left unticked (default state; the client's brief is explicit that it must not be pre-ticked).1
PENDING — checkbox ticked at submission; a confirmation email with a single-use, time-limited token is queued (§6.3).2
CONFIRMED — seller clicks the confirmation link; token validated, consumed, and timestamped. This is the only state
from which newsletters may legally be sent under the double opt-in requirement.
3
WITHDRAWN — reachable from CONFIRMED at any time via an unsubscribe link present in every newsletter send, per
the checkbox's own wording ("I can withdraw my consent at any time").
4
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 10 of 32

PAGE 11
consultation.booked Booking Service Notification Service; Broker Dashboard
newsletter.consent_requestedConsent Service Notification Service (sends double opt-in email, §6.3)
newsletter.consent_confirmedConsent Service Audit Log Service; Newsletter Subscription read model
newsletter.consent_withdrawnConsent Service Audit Log Service; Newsletter Subscription read model
2.4  Core Sequence Flows
Flow A — Seller Intake with Consent Capture
Flow B — Valuation → Dual-Tier Report Generation
Seller completes the Property Details form on the public portal. The newsletter checkbox is rendered unticked by default
with the exact client-supplied wording.
1
Client-side validation passes; POST /v1/properties is called (§3.2) with an optional newsletterOptIn: true|
false field.
2
Backend creates the Property row (state SUBMITTED) and, only if newsletterOptIn=true, creates a 
NewsletterSubscription row in state PENDING plus a Consents audit row.
3
property.submitted fires the valuation request; in parallel (not blocking), newsletter.consent_requested
queues the double opt-in email.
4
Seller receives a separate confirmation email; clicking the link calls GET /v1/newsletter/confirm?token=…,
transitioning the subscription to CONFIRMED.
5
Valuation Service calls the provider adapter (PriceHubble or Sprengnetter, v1.0 §11) with timeout-bounded, retrying
requests.
1
On success, the raw response is stored verbatim (auditability, v1.0 §7) and valuation.received fires.2
AI Report Service assembles context (§4.3) and generates both report tiers in the same job: the Value Signal and the Full
Report. Both are schema-validated (§4.4) before persistence.
3
Both Report rows are persisted with release_state=DRAFT_INTERNAL. Only the Value Signal's release_state
is immediately flipped to SELLER_VISIBLE — the Full Report is never auto-released.
4
report.generated notifies the seller that their Value Signal is ready, and populates the Broker Dashboard lead card
with both the score and a flag that a Full Report is waiting for review.
5
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 11 of 32

PAGE 12
Flow C — Broker Review & Full Report Release
Flow D — Consultation Booking
2.5  Module & Bounded-Context Map
BOUNDED CONTEXT OWNS
Identity & Access Users, Roles, JWT issuance/refresh, RBAC guards
Property Intake Properties, address validation, form state
Valuation Valuations, provider adapters, caching, resilience
AI Reporting Reports (both tiers), prompt templates, AI provider abstraction
Lead Qualification Lead Scores, scoring rule versions
Broker Workspace Broker Dashboard read models, review logging, release action
Consent &
Communications
Consents, NewsletterSubscriptions, Notifications
Scheduling Bookings, calendar adapter
Platform Audit Logs, Documents (reserved), observability
Each bounded context maps to one NestJS module (§6.1) with its own controllers, services, and repositories —
consistent with the layered architecture already approved in v1.0 §5, and unchanged in shape by this revision.
Broker calls the seller (off-platform, per the client's process) and opens the lead in the dashboard.1
Broker logs the review (POST /v1/leads/{id}/review, §3.2) — this is a required, attributable action, not implicit.2
broker.review_logged unlocks the "Release Full Report" action in the UI (previously disabled).3
Broker explicitly clicks Release; POST /v1/reports/{id}/release transitions the Full Report to RELEASED and
writes an Audit Log entry with the broker's identity and timestamp.
4
report.released notifies the seller by email that their full report — including positioning, sales route, and strategy —
is now available.
5
Seller selects a broker-availability slot on the Value Signal report's call-to-action.1
POST /v1/bookings checks live calendar availability (two-way sync, v1.0 §11) before confirming — booking
confirmation is issued only after the calendar write succeeds, unchanged from v1.0.
2
consultation.booked notifies broker and seller and updates the pipeline stage.3
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 12 of 32

PAGE 13
PART III — API DESIGN
3.1  API Design Principles
API Designer lens.
PRINCIPLE RULE
Style REST over HTTPS, resource-oriented, JSON bodies. No RPC-style endpoints (unchanged from v1.0 §8).
Versioning URI-based, /v1/..., from day one (v1.0 §8), so this v3.0 endpoint catalog ships as v1 without contract
churn.
Auth JWT bearer tokens; short-lived access token + rotating refresh token (v1.0 §12). Public endpoints are
explicitly marked below.
Idempotency All state-mutating POSTs accept an Idempotency-Key header (ADR-007); a duplicate key within its
TTL returns the original response instead of creating a duplicate side effect. This matters especially for the
Full Report release action, which must never double-fire.
Pagination Cursor-based (?cursor=&limit=) on all list endpoints, response envelope { data: [...],
nextCursor: string|null }.
Error shape RFC 7807-style problem object: { type, title, status, detail, instance, errors?:
[...] }. See §3.4.
Consent language Any endpoint that returns consent-bearing copy (checkbox text, confirmation email body) is served pre-
localized to the request's resolved locale (de-DE default, en fallback) — never translated client-side.
3.2  Endpoint Catalog
Auth
METHOD PATH AUTH PURPOSE
POST /v1/auth/login Public Email/password login for Broker/Admin. Sellers never
authenticate for the Value Signal flow.
POST /v1/auth/refresh Refresh
token
Rotates access + refresh token pair.
DELETE /v1/auth/session Bearer Revokes the current refresh token (ADR-009 token
revocation).
Properties
METHOD PATH AUTH PURPOSE
POST /v1/properties Public Create a property submission. Accepts newsletterOptIn
(boolean, default false) — see §3.3.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 13 of 32

PAGE 14
GET /v1/properties/{id} Owner or
Broker
Fetch a submission and its current state.
PATCH /v1/properties/{id} Owner
(pre-
submit
only)
Edit a draft before submission.
GET /v1/properties Broker/
Admin
List, filterable by pipeline stage, score band, date range.
Valuations & Reports
METHOD PATH AUTH PURPOSE
GET /v1/properties/{id}/valuationOwner or
Broker
Latest stored provider valuation, with staleness flag if a cached/
last-known response was served (v1.0 §11 resilience strategy).
GET /v1/properties/{id}/report/
value-signal
Owner or
Broker
The compact Value Signal — always returned once 
report.generated has fired. See §4.1 for the exact field
set.
GET /v1/properties/{id}/report/
full
Owner or
Broker
Returns 403 report_not_released unless the Full
Report's release_state =RELEASED — the gate from
§2.2 is enforced here, server-side, on every call, not only in the
seller-facing UI.
POST /v1/leads/{id}/review Broker Logs that the broker has called and reviewed the case.
Required before release is possible (§2.4 Flow C).
POST /v1/reports/{id}/releaseBroker Transitions the Full Report to RELEASED. Requires a prior 
review call on the same lead; idempotent via 
Idempotency-Key.
Leads & Scoring
METHOD PATH AUTH PURPOSE
GET /v1/leads Broker/
Admin
Pipeline list — score band, stage, assigned broker.
PATCH /v1/leads/{id}/stage Broker Manual pipeline stage update.
Bookings
METHOD PATH AUTH PURPOSE
GET /v1/brokers/{id}/availabilityPublic Free/busy slots from the synced calendar.
POST /v1/bookings Owner Creates a booking; only confirmed after the calendar write
succeeds (v1.0 §11, unchanged).
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 14 of 32

PAGE 15
DELETE /v1/bookings/{id} Owner or
Broker
Cancels; releases the calendar slot.
Consent & Newsletter NEW — CLIENT POINT 1
METHOD PATH AUTH PURPOSE
GET /v1/newsletter/confirm Public
(token in
query)
Double opt-in confirmation link target. Validates the single-use
token, transitions PENDING → CONFIRMED.
POST /v1/newsletter/unsubscribePublic
(token)
Transitions CONFIRMED → WITHDRAWN. Present as a link in
every newsletter send.
GET /v1/consents/{userId} Admin/
Broker
Full consent history for a user — the append-only audit trail from
§2.1.
Admin
METHOD PATH AUTH PURPOSE
GET /v1/admin/users Admin User management.
PATCH /v1/admin/scoring-rules Admin Edits the versioned, deterministic lead-scoring rule set (v1.0
§7).
GET /v1/admin/audit-logs Admin Full audit trail, including every report-release and consent
event.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 15 of 32

PAGE 16
3.3  Representative Payloads
Create Property (with optional newsletter opt-in)
POST /v1/properties
Content-Type: application/json
Idempotency-Key: 8b0e...
{
  "address": { "street": "Musterstrasse 12", "postalCode": "80331", "city": "München" },
  "propertyType": "APARTMENT",
  "sizeSqm": 92,
  "condition": "GOOD",
  "yearBuilt": 1998,
  "sellerContact": { "name": "…", "email": "…", "phone": "…" },
  "locale": "de-DE",
  "newsletterOptIn": true
}
201 Created
{
  "id": "prop_7f3a…",
  "state": "SUBMITTED",
  "newsletterSubscription": { "state": "PENDING" }
}
Fetch Value Signal
GET /v1/properties/prop_7f3a…/report/value-signal
200 OK
{
  "reportId": "rep_a91c…",
  "tier": "VALUE_SIGNAL",
  "valueRange": { "low": 512000, "high": 561000, "currency": "EUR" },
  "confidence": "HIGH",
  "keyDrivers": {
    "opportunities": ["Recently renovated bathroom", "Balcony with southern exposure"],
    "risks": ["Energy certificate class D — may affect buyer financing terms"]
  },
  "openPoints": ["Confirm parking allocation", "Confirm HOA reserve fund balance"],
  "marketContext": "…short, locale-aware market summary…",
  "callToAction": { "type": "BOOK_CONSULTATION", "brokerId": "brk_11" },
  "fullReport": { "releaseState": "DRAFT_INTERNAL", "available": false }
}
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 16 of 32

PAGE 17
Release Full Report (Broker Action)
POST /v1/reports/rep_a91c.../release
Authorization: Bearer …
Idempotency-Key: 4e21...
200 OK
{
  "reportId": "rep_a91c…",
  "tier": "FULL",
  "releaseState": "RELEASED",
  "releasedBy": "brk_11",
  "releasedAt": "2026-08-27T14:02:11Z"
}
# If §2.4 Flow C step 2 (review) was skipped:
409 Conflict
{
  "type": "https://docs.vision-estates.internal/errors/review-required",
  "title": "Broker review required before release",
  "status": 409
}
3.4  Error Model & Status Codes
STATUS CASE NOTES
400 Validation failure DTO-level (v1.0 §8); errors[] lists per-field messages, localized.
401 / 403 Auth / RBAC 403 also used for the Full Report gate (§3.2) — a functioning, authenticated request that is
structurally not allowed yet.
404 Unknown resource Never leaks whether a resource exists to an unauthorized caller — returns 404, not 403,
when appropriate.
409 State conflict e.g. releasing a report before the review step; double opt-in confirmation of an already-
confirmed token.
422 Semantically invalid e.g. booking a slot that just became unavailable between availability read and write.
429 Rate limited Per-IP/per-account, especially on auth and valuation-request endpoints (v1.0 §12).
502 / 504 Upstream failure Valuation provider or calendar provider unavailable; response includes whether a cached/
last-known value was substituted.
3.5  Async Notifications & Webhooks
Outbound notifications (email) are queued, not synchronous (v1.0 §9 async jobs). The table below lists the triggers
relevant to this revision; the full notification catalog is unchanged from v1.0 otherwise.
TRIGGER EVENT NOTIFICATION
newsletter.consent_requestedDouble opt-in confirmation email with single-use link (§6.3).
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 17 of 32

PAGE 18
report.generated "Your Value Signal is ready" email to the seller (Full Report is never mentioned at this stage).
report.released "Your full property report is ready" email to the seller, sent only after the broker's explicit release
action.
consultation.booked Confirmation to seller and broker; calendar invite attached.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 18 of 32

PAGE 19
PART IV — AI ARCHITECTURE (DEEP DIVE)
4.1  The Two-Tier Report Model — Value Signal & Full Report
AI Engineer lens. This section operationalizes client approval point 2 in full.
The client's instruction was precise: the first thing a seller sees must stay compact, and the deeper strategic content
must exist immediately but wait for a human. The AI Layer is designed around exactly two artifacts, generated together,
released on different schedules.
VALUE SIGNAL (TIER 1 — SELLER-VISIBLE
IMMEDIATELY) FULL REPORT (TIER 2 — BROKER-GATED)
Purpose Enough for the seller to trust the platform and want
to talk to a broker.
Enough for a broker to run the sale, only shown once
a human has added judgement.
Contents Value range · data confidence · key value drivers
(opportunities and risks) · open points · market
context · a clear call to action.
Everything in the Value Signal, plus buyer positioning,
recommended sales route, and detailed go-to-market
strategy.
Generated Immediately after valuation.received, in the
same AI job as the Full Report (§2.4 Flow B) — not
a separate, later request.
Same job, same timestamp. There is no "generate on
demand" path — this was explicit in the client's
instruction ("the full report should already be
generated internally for us").
Released Automatically, as soon as generation succeeds and
passes validation (§4.4).
Only via the broker's explicit POST /v1/reports/
{id}/release action, after a logged review (§2.2,
§2.4 Flow C).
WHY THIS IS A RELEASE GATE, NOT A SECOND GENERATION STEP
Generating the Full Report on demand — only after a broker asks for it — was considered and rejected. It would add
latency to the moment a broker most needs the content (mid- or post-call), and it would make "has this lead's full report
been produced yet" an ambiguous question during the review call. Generating both tiers up front and gating visibility
instead keeps broker judgement in the loop exactly where the client wants it — before the seller sees strategy content —
without making the broker wait on an AI call at the moment of contact. 
4.2  Prompt Architecture & Template Governance
CONCERN APPROACH
Template storage Versioned prompt templates outside application code (v1.0 §10, unchanged) — now split into two
families, value-signal/* and full-report/*, each versioned independently so a Value
Signal wording change never risks the Full Report's structure.
Locale variants Each template family has a de-DE (default) and en variant (§4.7) — never machine-translated at
request time; both are authored and reviewed as first-class prompt versions.
Structured output Both tiers are requested as schema-constrained JSON (matching the payload shapes in §3.3), not free
text later parsed — this is what makes §4.4's validation step possible.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 19 of 32

PAGE 20
Prompt inputs Structured valuation payload, structured property data, and — for the Full Report only — market-
comparable data and any risk flags from intake (§1.2 problem #3). The Value Signal prompt deliberately
receives a narrower context window than the Full Report prompt, so it cannot accidentally produce Full-
Report-grade strategic content.
4.3  Context Assembly Pipeline
4.4  Guardrails & Output Validation
GUARDRAIL DETAIL
Valuation-attribution guardrailUnchanged, foundational rule from v1.0 ADR-001: the AI layer is never the source of the value figure.
Both tiers' prompts explicitly instruct the model to explain the provider's number, never to state or
imply a different one — and the UI attributes the number to the provider (Appendix A risk mitigation,
v1.0).
Schema validation A malformed or empty AI response never silently reaches a seller or a broker — unchanged principle
from v1.0 §10, now applied identically to both tiers.
Tier-leak guardrail New.
The Value Signal generation call is not permitted to receive or reference sales-route or positioning
language — enforced by the narrower context window in §4.3, and re-checked by a lightweight post-
generation classifier that rejects a Value Signal output containing Full-Report-only field types.
Empty/failed generation If the Full Report generation fails while the Value Signal succeeds, the Property remains in 
REPORT_READY for the seller (Value Signal only shown) while the Full Report retry is queued —
the broker dashboard flags "Full Report pending" rather than blocking the seller experience.
4.5  Model/Provider Strategy, Failover & Cost Governance
Unchanged in shape from v1.0 §10 and v2.0 (ADR-002, ADR-008): a single internal interface
( AIProvider.generate(prompt, context)) implemented per vendor (OpenAI, Anthropic, and a future local model),
selectable per environment, with failover to a secondary provider on outage and per-tier cost/latency budgets tracked
via the same cost-governance mechanism introduced in v2.0. The two-tier model doubles the number of generation
calls per property; cost governance now tracks Value Signal and Full Report spend as separate budget lines so a Full
Report cost spike (longer context, more tokens) is visible independently of Value Signal volume.
Fetch the stored provider valuation payload (never re-request the provider for report generation — the number is already
fixed and stored, v1.0 §7).
1
Fetch structured property fields (condition, energy data, features) from the Property Intake context.2
Fetch recent comparable-market data available to the provider integration (Full Report only).3
Assemble two prompt payloads — the narrow Value Signal context and the fuller Full Report context — and issue both
generations in the same background job (§6.3).
4
Pass each raw model response through schema validation (§4.4) before persistence.5
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 20 of 32

PAGE 21
4.6  Human-in-the-Loop Release Gate
This is the operational heart of client approval point 2, and it lives partly in the AI layer's output design (§4.1) and partly
in the Business Logic and Backend layers (§2.2, §3.2). Restated plainly: the AI layer produces the Full Report; a
named broker decides when a seller is allowed to read it. That decision is recorded (§2.3 report.released, Audit
Logs), attributable to one person, and irreversible through the API once made — matching how the client described the
process ("after we have contacted the seller by phone and reviewed the case, we should be able to release and send it
to them").
4.7  Localization of AI Output
CONCERN APPROACH
Default locale German (de-DE) — matches §1.3's Germany-first commitment. Every new property submission defaults
to German unless the seller explicitly selects English.
Tone and register German prompt variants are authored natively, not translated from English — formal Sie register
throughout, consistent with professional German real-estate correspondence norms.
Consent copy The newsletter checkbox wording (§5.2) is treated as legally sensitive copy — stored as a versioned
template like the report prompts, not hardcoded in the frontend, so a future wording change is auditable.
Scope boundary No language beyond German/English is in the MVP prompt template set — consistent with v1.0 §4's Not
Included list and reaffirmed in §1.4 of this document.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 21 of 32

PAGE 22
PART V — DATA ARCHITECTURE (UPDATED)
5.1  Updated Entity Set
Builds directly on the production DDL already delivered and validated (Postgres 16, live-tested RESTRICT/CHECK/
unique-email/optimistic-concurrency behavior, per the engagement log). The tables below are additive migrations on top
of that schema — no existing table is restructured.
TABLE CHANGE COLUMNS OF NOTE
reports ALTER + tierENUM('VALUE_SIGNAL','FULL'), + release_state
ENUM('DRAFT_INTERNAL','SELLER_VISIBLE','RELEASED'), + 
released_by_user_id (nullable FK → users), + released_at (nullable
timestamptz).
leads ALTER + reviewed_by_user_id (nullable FK → users), + reviewed_at (nullable
timestamptz) — gates the release action per §2.4 Flow C.
newsletter_subscriptionsCREATE id, email (unique), user_id (nullable FK — a subscription can exist before
a full user record), state
ENUM('PENDING','CONFIRMED','WITHDRAWN'), 
confirm_token_hash, confirm_token_expires_at, confirmed_at, 
withdrawn_at.
consents CREATE id, user_id (FK, nullable for pre-account leads), consent_type
ENUM('NEWSLETTER','TERMS','DATA_PROCESSING'), action
ENUM('GRANTED','WITHDRAWN'), source (form field / link / API), 
ip_address (hashed), occurred_at. Append-only — no update or delete
path in the repository layer (v1.0 §8, repositories are the sole query layer).
5.2  Consent & Newsletter Data Model
The design directly encodes the client's exact requirement: a separate, voluntary, unticked checkbox, stored, double-
opt-in confirmed, and withdrawable at any time.
Separate:newsletterOptIn is an independent form field from the property submission — it is not bundled with, or
implied by, any Terms-of-Service acceptance. The consents table's consent_type enum keeps NEWSLETTER
distinct from TERMS for this reason.
Voluntary and unticked: enforced at the frontend component level (§6.2) and re-validated server-side — a
submission is never rejected or degraded for leaving the box unticked.
Double opt-in: the PENDING state and single-use confirm_token_hash (§2.2 flow) mean no address ever enters
a sendable state without a positive click from that address's inbox — the standard evidentiary bar for German
consent case law (see §5.3).
Withdrawable at any time: the unsubscribe endpoint (§3.2) requires no login — a valid token is sufficient, matching
the checkbox's own wording.
• 
• 
• 
• 
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 22 of 32

PAGE 23
5.3  GDPR Mapping for Consent
NOT LEGAL ADVICE
The mapping below is an engineering reference showing which data-model and workflow decisions were made to support
common GDPR consent obligations. It is not a legal opinion. Vision Estates should have its own legal counsel confirm the
exact wording and process against current German case law before launch. 
OBLIGATION (TYPICAL
READING) HOW THE DATA MODEL SUPPORTS IT
Consent must be freely given,
specific, and unambiguous
(commonly referenced as GDPR
Art. 6(1)(a) territory)
Unticked-by-default checkbox, separate from other consents (§5.2).
Consent must be as easy to
withdraw as to give
One-click, no-login unsubscribe endpoint present in every send (§3.2, §3.5).
Controller should be able to
demonstrate consent was given
Append-only consents audit trail with source, timestamp, and hashed IP (§5.1) — reconstructable
per user via GET /v1/consents/{userId}.
Double opt-in as an evidentiary
practice for email marketing
consent
Token-based confirmation flow (§2.2, §2.4 Flow A) — consent is only "usable" for sending once
independently confirmed from the mailbox, not merely ticked on a form.
5.4  Report Tiering & Release State
Restates §2.2's state machine at the data level: reports.release_state transitions are one-directional
( DRAFT_INTERNAL → SELLER_VISIBLE → RELEASED for the seller-facing row semantics described in §4.1) and every
transition to RELEASED requires a non-null leads.reviewed_by_user_id on the associated lead — enforced by a
database CHECK/trigger pattern consistent with the optimistic-concurrency approach already validated in the delivered
DDL, not only in application code, so the release gate holds even against a direct data-layer mutation.
5.5  Indexing & Retention Updates
ITEM DETAIL
New index Composite index on newsletter_subscriptions(state,
confirm_token_expires_at) to support an expiry-sweep job (unconfirmed tokens
beyond TTL are purged, not left indefinitely pending).
New index reports(property_id, tier, release_state) — the exact lookup shape used
by the seller-facing report page and the broker dashboard's "pending release" filter.
Retention consents rows are never purged on a standard retention sweep (they are the audit evidence
itself); newsletter_subscriptions follows the same inactive-lead retention window as 
properties (v1.0 §7 database architecture, unchanged).
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 23 of 32

PAGE 24
PART VI — BACKEND & FRONTEND DETAIL
6.1  Backend Module Layout (NestJS)
Software Engineer lens. One NestJS module per bounded context from §2.5.
src/
  modules/
    identity/            # users, roles, auth, RBAC guards
    property-intake/      # properties, address validation
    valuation/            # provider adapters, caching, resilience
    ai-reporting/          # value-signal + full-report generation, prompt templates
    lead-qualification/    # deterministic scoring engine
    broker-workspace/      # dashboard read models, review + release actions
    consent/               # consents, newsletter-subscriptions, double opt-in
    scheduling/            # bookings, calendar adapter
    platform/              # audit-logs, documents (reserved), health checks
  common/
    dto/  guards/  interceptors/  filters/  events/
  jobs/
    valuation-request.job.ts
    report-generation.job.ts       # generates BOTH tiers in one job (§4.1)
    newsletter-opt-in-email.job.ts
    token-expiry-sweep.job.ts
Each module keeps the controller → service → repository separation established in v1.0 §8. The ai-reporting
module is the only module permitted to call the AI provider abstraction (§4.5); the consent module is the only module
permitted to write to consents and newsletter_subscriptions.
6.2  Frontend Route & Component Map
SURFACE / ROUTE NEW OR CHANGED COMPONENT
Seller Portal — /valuation/
start
<NewsletterConsentCheckbox /> — unticked by default, renders the exact client-approved
wording per locale, links to a short consent-notice tooltip.
Seller Portal — /valuation/
report/[id]
Report page renders the Value Signal tier only; a "Full report available after your consultation" state
block replaces the Full Report section until release_state=RELEASED.
Broker Dashboard — /leads/
[id]
<LogReviewButton /> (calls the review endpoint) and <ReleaseFullReportButton />
— disabled until a review has been logged, matching the server-side gate exactly so the UI never
promises an action the API will reject.
Broker Dashboard — /leads
(list)
New "Full Report Pending" filter/column.
Admin Dashboard — /admin/
consents
Read-only consent audit viewer per user (GET /v1/consents/{userId}).
Public — /newsletter/
confirm, /newsletter/
unsubscribe
Minimal confirmation/unsubscribe pages, no login required, locale-aware.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 24 of 32

PAGE 25
6.3  Background Jobs & Queues
JOB BEHAVIOR
report-generation.job Triggered by valuation.received. Generates Value Signal and Full Report in the same
job run (§4.1) so they share a timestamp and context snapshot; retried independently per tier if
one generation fails validation (§4.4).
newsletter-opt-in-email.jobTriggered by newsletter.consent_requested. Queued with retry, failures surfaced on
the broker/admin dashboard rather than silently dropped — same pattern as v1.0 §9's existing
notification jobs.
token-expiry-sweep.job Scheduled sweep that expires stale PENDING double opt-in tokens past TTL, using the index
added in §5.5.
6.4  Testing Strategy — Detailed
LAYER NEW COVERAGE FOR THIS REVISION
Unit Report release-gate logic (cannot release without a prior review); newsletter state-machine transitions
including expired-token and double-confirmation-attempt cases.
Integration POST /v1/reports/{id}/release against a real test database, asserting the 409 case from §3.4
and the Audit Log write.
End-to-End Full seller journey extended to: submit with newsletter opt-in ticked → confirm via emailed link (test inbox)
→ receive Value Signal → (simulate broker review + release) → receive Full Report notification.
Security review Newsletter unsubscribe/confirm endpoints checked against token-guessing and replay, consistent with the
OWASP mapping in v1.0 §12.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 25 of 32

PAGE 26
PART VII — DEVOPS BLUEPRINT
7.1  Environments & Branching Strategy
DevOps lens.
ENVIRONMENT PURPOSE & BRANCH MAPPING
Local Docker Compose stack (Postgres, Redis, backend, frontend) mirroring production images (v1.0 §14). Feature
branches off main, PR required to merge.
Staging Deploys automatically on every merge to main (v1.0 §14, "green build on main deploys to staging
automatically"). Mirrors production configuration exactly (v1.0 §18).
Production Deployed only from a reviewed, tested build via a deliberate, reviewed promotion — never directly from staging
on a timer, and never from a developer machine (v1.0 §18, unchanged).
7.2  CI/CD Pipeline — Stage by Stage
# STAGE WHAT RUNS
1 Lint & Typecheck ESLint + TypeScript strict mode across backend and frontend packages; fails fast before any test
spend.
2 Unit Tests Business-logic layer, framework-agnostic (v1.0 §8) — includes the new release-gate and consent
state-machine suites from §6.4.
3 Integration Tests API endpoints against a real ephemeral test database with mocked external providers (valuation,
calendar, email, AI) — v1.0 §16, unchanged pattern.
4 Dependency &
Static-Analysis Scan
Automated CVE scanning of the dependency graph (v1.0 §12 OWASP mapping — Vulnerable
Components); blocks merge on critical/high findings.
5 Build Multi-stage Docker builds for backend and frontend, tagged with the commit SHA; identical image
promoted through every later environment (v1.0 §14, "works on my machine" elimination).
6 Migration Check Prisma migration diff runs against a disposable database to catch a destructive or out-of-order
migration before it reaches staging — critical for the additive migrations in §5.1.
7 Deploy to Staging Automatic on main merge (v1.0 §14).
8 E2E Suite on
Staging
Playwright-driven critical journeys (v1.0 §16) including the extended newsletter/release journey
from §6.4.
9 Manual Promotion
Gate
A human reviews the staging build and explicitly promotes to production (v1.0 §18) — this mirrors,
at the infrastructure level, the same "human decides when it's ready" principle used for the Full
Report release gate in §4.6.
10 Blue-Green
Production Deploy
New version deploys alongside the current one, takes traffic only after health checks pass (v1.0
§18, ADR-006); a failed health check auto-reverts traffic.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 26 of 32

PAGE 27
7.3  Infrastructure as Code & AWS Resource Map
AWS SERVICE ROLE
RDS (PostgreSQL) System of record (v1.0 §14); EU region per §1.3's data-residency commitment.
ECS/Fargate Container hosting for backend and frontend services, stateless (JWT auth enables this, v1.0 §13).
ElastiCache (Redis) Valuation-response cache and session/rate-limit data (v1.0 §6, §13).
S3 Generated report PDFs and the reserved Documents entity's future artifacts (v1.0 §7, §14).
Secrets Manager Environment secrets, including AI provider keys, valuation provider credentials, and email-provider
credentials for the double opt-in flow (§7.5).
CloudWatch Infrastructure metrics/logs; alerting on error-rate spikes, latency degradation, and integration failures (v1.0
§14, §11).
All resources are provisioned via reviewed infrastructure-as-code with no manually configured production resources
(v1.0 §12, Security Misconfiguration mitigation) — unchanged principle, now also covering the new 
newsletter_subscriptions/ consents tables' backup and encryption configuration.
7.4  Observability Stack
SIGNAL IMPLEMENTATION
Traces OpenTelemetry, vendor-neutral (v1.0 §6) — each of the two AI generation calls in report-
generation.job emits its own span so Value Signal and Full Report latency/cost are visible
independently.
Metrics Per-integration latency and error-rate (v1.0 §11), plus new counters: double opt-in confirmation rate, time-
to-release (review → release), Full Report generation failure rate.
Logs Structured JSON, correlated by request ID, shipped to CloudWatch (v1.0 §8).
Alerting A degraded valuation provider — or an unusually high newsletter-token-expiry rate, indicating a broken
confirmation email — is something the team is alerted to, not something a seller or broker discovers first
(v1.0 §11 principle, extended).
7.5  Secrets & Configuration Management
Unchanged from v1.0 §12/§14: environment secrets held in a managed secrets store, never committed to source
control, strict separation of local/staging/production credentials. The email-sending credentials used for double opt-in
confirmations are scoped separately from transactional notification credentials, so a compromise of one does not
implicate the other (defense-in-depth extension of ADR-009's secrets-rotation practice from v2.0).
7.6  Release Process, Migrations & Rollback
The new tables and columns in §5.1 are additive (new tables, nullable new columns on existing tables) — they ship as a
normal forward migration with no backward-incompatible step, so the blue-green rollback path (v1.0 §18, ADR-006)
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 27 of 32

PAGE 28
remains valid: a rollback to the previous image continues to operate correctly against the post-migration schema, since
old code simply ignores the new nullable columns and tables it doesn't yet know about.
7.7  Disaster Recovery & Backups
Unchanged from v1.0 §7/Appendix C: automated daily snapshots with point-in-time recovery, tested restoration. The 
consents table's append-only design (§5.1) means a restore can never silently lose consent history without also losing
the rows that reference it — there is no update-in-place path that could corrupt or overwrite a prior consent record.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 28 of 32

PAGE 29
PART VIII — DOCUMENTATION SET
8.1  Documentation Philosophy
Consistent with v1.0 §17 ("Vision Estates receives a system it can operate independently of the original build team"),
the production repository ships with a fixed set of Markdown documents alongside the code — not as an afterthought,
but as the artifact a new engineer, a broker-ops lead, or an auditor would actually open first. All files below are delivered
together with this proposal as a companion package (vision-estates-docs.zip) and are intended to live at the
stated repository path from day one of the Backend phase (v1.0 §15).
8.2  Repository Documentation Index
FILE REPO PATH PURPOSE
README.md / Project overview, stack summary, local quick-start — first file anyone opens.
ARCHITECTURE.md /docs Layered architecture, bounded contexts, module boundaries — the narrative form
of Parts II and VI here.
API.md /docs Human-readable companion to the OpenAPI spec — the endpoint catalog from
§3.2 kept current as the source of truth alongside generated docs (v1.0 §17).
DATABASE.md /docs Entity-relationship narrative, migration policy, and the additive-migration record
from §5.1.
AI_ARCHITECTURE.md/docs Two-tier report model, prompt governance, guardrails — the narrative form of Part
IV.
GDPR_AND_CONSENT.md/docs Consent data model, double opt-in flow, and the not-legal-advice GDPR mapping
from §5.3 — the document Vision Estates' legal counsel should be handed first.
SECURITY.md /docs OWASP mapping, RBAC model, secrets handling (v1.0 §12).
DEPLOYMENT.md /docs Environment setup and deployment procedure (v1.0 §17).
CI_CD.md /docs Pipeline stage reference — the narrative form of §7.2.
TESTING.md /docs Test strategy across unit/integration/E2E/ security/performance/UAT (v1.0 §16,
extended per §6.4).
RUNBOOKS.md /docs Operational procedures for provider outage, failed deployment, database failover
(v1.0 §17).
LOCALIZATION.md /docs German-first locale strategy, translation governance for consent and report copy
(§4.7).
CONTRIBUTING.md / Coding conventions, branch/PR workflow, commit style — the developer guide
referenced in v1.0 §17.
CHANGELOG.md / Version history — the source this proposal's §0.3 table is generated from.
docs/adr/ADR-001.md
… ADR-013.md
/docs/adr One file per Architecture Decision Record — see Appendix B for the newest three.
docs/DOCS_INDEX.md/docs This table, kept in the repository itself so it never drifts from what actually exists.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 29 of 32

PAGE 30
APPENDIX A
Updated Risk Register
Extends v1.0 Appendix A with the risks introduced by the two client-approved workflow changes.
RISK CATEGORYLIKELIHOODIMPACT MITIGATION
Full Report released
prematurely (before
broker review)
Product /
Legal
Low High Server-side, DB-level release gate (§5.4) — not just a UI
restriction; requires a non-null review timestamp on the
lead before the release endpoint will succeed (§3.2).
Double opt-in
confirmation email lands
in spam or is not
delivered
Technical /
Marketing
Medium Medium Queued delivery with retry (§6.3); confirmation-rate
metric alerted on (§7.4); token TTL long enough to
tolerate delivery delay.
Consent audit trail
incomplete or tampered
Legal /
Compliance
Low High Append-only consents table with no update/delete
repository method (§5.1); included in the standard
backup/PITR strategy (§7.7).
Newsletter sent to an
address that later
withdrew consent
Legal /
Compliance
Low High Send pipeline reads live 
newsletter_subscriptions.state at send time,
not a cached list — a withdrawal is respected on the
very next send cycle.
Value Signal accidentally
contains Full-Report-only
content
Product Low Medium Narrower prompt context window plus a post-generation
tier classifier (§4.4).
All risks from v1.0 Appendix A remain valid and unchanged; this table is additive.
APPENDIX B
New & Updated Architecture Decision Records
ADR-007 — Idempotency Keys on Mutating Endpoints
Context: Network retries on mobile connections (v1.0 §9 mobile-first seller portal) risk duplicate side effects on POST
endpoints, most dangerously the report-release action. Decision: All mutating endpoints accept an Idempotency-Key
header; a repeated key within TTL returns the original response. Consequences: Small storage overhead for key/
response caching, in exchange for safe client retries.
ADR-008 — AI Cost Governance & Provider Failover
Context: Two-tier generation (§4.1) doubles AI spend per property. Decision: Per-tier budget tracking and automatic
failover to a secondary AI provider on primary-provider outage, built on the provider-independent abstraction from v1.0
ADR-002. Consequences: Additional monitoring surface, in exchange for predictable cost and resilience to a single
vendor's outage.
ADR-009 — Token Revocation & Secrets Rotation
Context: Stateless JWT auth (v1.0 ADR-004) makes instant revocation harder. Decision: Short access-token lifetimes,
rotating refresh tokens, and a revocation endpoint (§3.2) backed by a denylist with TTL equal to the access-token
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 30 of 32

PAGE 31
lifetime; secrets rotated on a defined cadence. Consequences: A small stateful denylist reintroduces limited server-side
state, accepted as the cost of practical revocation.
ADR-010 — In-Process Domain Event Bus
Context: Cross-module reactions (valuation received → generate reports; report released → notify) need a consistent
pattern without premature message-queue infrastructure for an MVP's traffic volume. Decision: An in-process,
synchronous-dispatch domain event bus (the catalog in §2.3), with module boundaries designed so a future move to an
external queue would only change the bus implementation, not the event contracts. Consequences: Not horizontally
distributed across processes yet — acceptable for MVP scale; revisit if the platform outgrows a single backend
deployment unit.
NEW IN V3.0 — DIRECTLY FROM CLIENT APPROVAL
ADR-011, ADR-012 and ADR-013 below did not exist in v2.0. They are written specifically to record the three approved
changes as durable architectural commitments, not just narrative description. 
ADR-011 — Two-Tier Report Generation with Broker-Gated Release
Context: The client requires sellers to see only a compact Value Signal initially, while the full strategic report must
already exist internally and be releasable after a broker's phone review. Decision: Generate both report tiers in the
same background job (§4.1, §6.3); gate the Full Report's visibility, not its generation, behind an explicit, attributable
broker action enforced server-side and at the database level (§5.4). Consequences: Slightly higher AI spend per
property (both tiers always generated) and one additional required broker action per lead, in exchange for guaranteed
human review before any seller sees strategic content, and zero latency at the moment a broker needs the Full Report
during or after a call.
ADR-012 — Double Opt-In Newsletter Consent as a Separate, Unticked Field
Context: The client wants to build a compliant, automated-newsletter-eligible lead list without bundling consent into the
property submission itself. Decision: A standalone, unticked checkbox with the client-supplied wording, backed by a
dedicated newsletter_subscriptions state machine and an append-only consents audit table (§5.1–§5.3),
confirmed via a single-use emailed token before any send is permitted. Consequences: An extra table, job, and pair of
public endpoints (§3.2, §6.3), in exchange for a newsletter list that is legally usable rather than merely collected.
ADR-013 — Germany-First Localization Default
Context: The client confirmed Germany as the sole launch market, with English available only as a secondary toggle
for international owners of German property, not a separate market push. Decision: German (de-DE) is the default
locale end-to-end — form copy, AI-generated report prompts (§4.7), consent language, and notification templates —
with English maintained as a first-class but secondary variant. No additional locale is added to the MVP template set. 
Consequences: Keeps the localization surface small and native-quality for the one market that matters now, at the cost
of needing a deliberate follow-up decision (not covered by this document) before any future market's language is added.
APPENDIX C
Updated Non-Functional Requirements
CATEGORY TARGET
Availability, Scalability, Security,
Observability, Maintainability,
Disaster Recovery, Data
Residency
Unchanged from v1.0 Appendix C — final numbers confirmed with Vision Estates during discovery.
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 31 of 32

PAGE 32
Consent delivery latency Double opt-in confirmation email queued within seconds of submission (engineering default; not a
contractual SLA at this stage).
Report generation latency Both tiers targeted to complete within the same background-job window so the seller-facing "Value
Signal ready" notification is not delayed by Full Report generation running in the same job (§4.3) —
exact target to be confirmed once real provider/AI latency is measured in staging.
APPENDIX D
Updated Assumptions & Dependencies
Vision Estates confirms the exact wording of the newsletter consent checkbox for production use (the wording in the
client's review is used verbatim as the working draft — §5.2).
Vision Estates confirms the email-sending provider/domain used for double opt-in confirmations, so SPF/DKIM and
deliverability are set up before launch.
Vision Estates confirms the exact fields to appear in the Full Report's "recommended sales route" and "detailed
strategy" sections, so the Full Report prompt template (§4.2) can be finalized against real examples.
All assumptions and external dependencies from v1.0 Appendix D remain in force and are not restated here.
APPENDIX E
Updated Acceptance Criteria
Adds to, and does not replace, v1.0 Appendix E.
A seller can leave the newsletter checkbox unticked and complete the valuation flow with no degraded experience.
A seller who ticks the checkbox receives a confirmation email and is not subscribed until they click the link.
A confirmed subscriber can unsubscribe with one click, without logging in, and stops receiving newsletters from the
next send onward.
A seller viewing their report sees only the Value Signal fields listed in §4.1 until a broker releases the Full Report.
The Full Report release endpoint rejects the action with 409 if no broker review has been logged for that lead.
Every report release is visible in the Admin audit log with the releasing broker's identity and timestamp.
The public Seller Portal, all AI-generated report copy, and all consent/notification copy render correctly in German by
default and in English when explicitly selected.
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Vision Estates — AI Seller Acquisition PlatformConfidential — Engineering Blueprint v3.0 Page 32 of 32